The following is an extract, lightly edited to replace symbols, of all of the descriptors defined in the Concepts clause of the GQL standard (39075_2CD1SP1-GQL_2025-10-19.pdf).They have been reordered to be slightly more hierarchical.A GQL-directory descriptor comprises:— The set of named subobjects that comprises (identifier, object descriptor) pairs that associate identifiers to the descriptors of every GQL-directory and GQL-schema held by the GQL-directory.A GQL-schema descriptor comprises:— The owner of the GQL-schema, an authorization identifier of a principal.— The set of named subobjects of the GQL-schema that comprises (identifier, object descriptor) pairs that associate identifiers to the catalog object descriptors of every catalog object held by the GQL-schema.A catalog object descriptor is one of:— A graph descriptor.— A graph type descriptor.— A binding table descriptor.— A named procedure descriptorA graph descriptor comprises:— The optional constraining graph type that is a globally resolved reference to a graph type schema object.— A constraint dictionary, which is a set comprising zero or more uniquely named constraint descriptors of constraints of the graph that specify additional restrictions on the graph elements of the graph.A graph type descriptor comprises:— The declared name of the primary base type of all graph types (GRAPH DATA).— The preferred name of graph types (implementation-defined (ID089) choice of GRAPH or PROPERTY GRAPH).— The set of node type descriptors (also known as a node type set).— The set of edge type descriptors (also known as an edge type set).— The node type key label set dictionary that maps node type key label sets to node types contained in the node type set of this graph type descriptor.— The edge type key label set dictionary that maps edge type key label sets to sets of edge types contained in the edge type set of this graph type descriptor.— The constraint set dictionary that maps the name of each constraint in the constraint set of this graph type descriptor to that constraint.A node type descriptor comprises:— The declared name of the primary base type of all node types (NODE DATA).— The preferred name of node types (implementation-defined (ID090) choice of NODE or VERTEX).— The set of zero or more labels (also known as a node type label set). A label has a name that is an identifier that is unique within the node type label set.The minimum cardinality of node type label sets is the implementation-defined (IL001) minimum cardinality of node label sets.The maximum cardinality of node type label sets is the implementation-defined (IL001) maximum cardinality of node label sets.— The set of zero or more property type descriptors (also known as a node type property type set).The maximum cardinality of node type property type sets is the implementation-defined (IL002) maximum cardinality of node property type sets.The edge type descriptor comprises:— The declared name of the primary base type of all edge types (EDGE DATA).— The preferred name of edge types (implementation-defined (ID091) choice of EDGE or RELATIONSHIP).— The set of zero or more labels (also known as an edge type label set). A label has a name that is an identifier that is unique within the edge type label set.The minimum cardinality of edge type label sets is the implementation-defined (IL001) minimum cardinality of edge label sets.The maximum cardinality of edge type label sets is the implementation-defined (IL001) maximum cardinality of edge label sets.— The set of zero or more property type descriptors (also known as an edge type property type set).The maximum cardinality of edge type property type sets is the implementation-defined (IL002) maximum cardinality of edge property sets.— The indication of whether the edge type is directed or undirected.— Case:o If the edge type is directed, then:* The source node type descriptor.* The destination node type descriptor.o If the edge type is undirected, then the set of one or two endpoint node type descriptors.A property type descriptor comprises:— A name, which is an identifier.— A value type, which can be any supported property value type.A binding table descriptor comprises:— The binding table type of the binding table.— The indication of whether the binding table is ordered or unordered.— The preferred column name sequence, which is either “not set” or a permutation of the column names of the binding table type.A binding table data type descriptor comprises:— The declared name of the primary base type of all binding table types (BINDING TABLE DATA).— The closed material record type.A named procedure descriptor comprises:— The list of the declared types of the mandatory procedure parameters and their names.— The list of the declared types of the optional procedure parameters, their names, and their default values.— The procedure result type.— The indication of the kinds of side effects the execution of the named procedure can cause, specified as follows:* CATALOG PROCEDURE indicates that this procedure is a catalog-modifying procedure, as described in Subclause 4.12.2.4, “Procedures classified by kind of side effects”.* DATA PROCEDURE indicates that this procedure is a data-modifying procedure, as described in Subclause 4.12.2.4, “Procedures classified by kind of side effects”.* QUERY PROCEDURE indicates that this procedure is a query procedure, as described in Subclause 4.12.2.4, “Procedures classified by kind of side effects”.A data type descriptor comprises:— an identification of the data type — all information needed to characterize an element of that data type. In particular, the descriptor of every data type defined in this document includes the declared name of the primary base type of the data type.A dynamic union data type descriptor comprises:— The declared name of the primary base type of all dynamic union types (ANY DATA).— The preferred name of the dynamic union type.— The indication of whether the type is open or closed.— The component types, a finite set of two or more data types.— The indication of whether the dynamic union type includes the null value.A path value data type descriptor comprises:— The declared name of the primary base type of all path value types (PATH VALUE DATA).— The indication of whether the type contains the null value.A list value data type descriptor comprises:— The declared name of the primary base type of all list value types (LIST VALUE DATA).— The preferred name of the specific list value type, which is the declared name of the normal form of the list value type.— The list element type of the list value type.— The indication of whether the type is a group list value type or a regular list value type. A group list value type is a list value type whose values are known to directly or indirectly originate from an element variable that has group degree of reference, as detailed in Subclause 4.13.5, “References to graph pattern variables”. A regular list value type is a list type that is not a group list value type.— The maximum cardinality of the list value type.— The indication of whether the type contains the null value.A record data type descriptor comprises:— The declared name of the primary base type of all record types (RECORD DATA).— The indication of whether the type is closed or open.— If the record type is closed, then a (possibly empty) set of field types. Each field type is a pair comprising a name, which is an identifier, and a value type. The name of each field type is unique within the record type.— The indication of whether the type contains the null value.A field type descriptor comprises:— A name, which is an identifier.— A value type.A Boolean data type descriptor comprises:— The declared name of the primary base type of all Boolean types (BOOLEAN DATA).— The preferred name of the Boolean type BOOLEAN.— The indication of whether the type includes the null value.A character string data type descriptor comprises:— The declared name of the primary base type of all character string types (STRING DATA).— The preferred name of the character string type (implementation-defined (ID023) choice of STRING, CHAR, or VARCHAR).— The minimum length in characters of the character string type.— The maximum length in characters of the character string type.— The indication of whether the type includes the null value.A byte string data type descriptor comprises:— The declared name of the primary base type of all byte string types (BINARY DATA).— The preferred name of the byte string type (implementation-defined (ID023) choice of BINARY, BYTES, or VARBINARY).— The minimum length in bytes of the byte string type.— The maximum length in bytes of the byte string type.— The indication of whether the byte string type includes the null value.A numeric data type descriptor comprises:— The declared name of the primary base type of the numeric type (EXACT NUMERIC DATA for exact numeric types and FLOAT NUMERIC DATA for approximate numeric types).— The preferred name of the specific numeric type, which is the declared name of the normal form of the numeric type.— The indication of whether numbers of the numeric type are specified in binary or decimal terms.The radix of binary exact numbers is 2, the radix of decimal exact numbers is 10, and the radix of approximate numbers is always 2.— The precision of the numeric type, which is a positive integer.— The scale of the numeric type, which is a non-negative integer.— The indication of whether the type includes the null value.A temporal instant data type descriptor comprises:— The declared name of the primary base type of all temporal instant types (TEMPORAL INSTANT DATA).— The preferred name of the specific temporal instant type, which is the declared name of the normal form of the temporal instant type.— The indication of whether the temporal instant values of the type capture the date.— The indication of whether the temporal instant values of the type capture the time of day.— The indication of whether the temporal instant values of the type include a time zone displacement.— The indication of whether the type includes the null value.A temporal duration data type descriptor comprises:— The declared name of the primary base type of all temporal duration types (TEMPORAL DURATION DATA).— The temporal duration unit group of temporal durations of the type (one of: year and month-based duration unit group or day and time-based duration unit group).— The indication of whether the type includes the null value.A reference value data type descriptor comprises:— The reference base type name of the reference value type. This name always ends with the word REFERENCE.— The object base type name of the reference value type. This name is the name of the common base type of the GQL-object types of all possible referents of the reference values of the reference value type.— The preferred name of the reference value type.— The optional constraining GQL-object type of all possible referents of the reference values of the reference value type. The name of the primary base type of this GQL-object type is the object base type name.— The indication of whether the type contains the null value.An immaterial data type descriptor comprises:— The declared name of the primary base type of all immaterial types (NULL DATA).— The preferred name of the immaterial type (NULL for the null type and NOTHING for the empty type).— The indication of whether the type includes the null value.A vector data type descriptor comprises:— The declared name of the primary base type of all vector types (VECTOR DATA).— The preferred name of vector type (VECTOR).— The dimension of the vector type.— The coordinate type of the vector type.— The indication of whether the vector type contains the null value.A constraint descriptor comprises:— The constraint name, which identifies the constraint in certain contexts implied by the parent descriptor of the constraint (e.g., the graph type specified by a graph type descriptor).— The constraint subject set, which is a set of valid reference values for the registered subjects of the constraint.In this document, modifications to the constraint subject set of a constraint descriptor of a constraint are always determined by explicit provisions in General Rules regarding the (un)registration of subjects of the constraint.— The constraint scope of the constraint, which describes the set of (graph) elements of each registered subject of the constraint, that are restricted by the constraint (the constrained elements of the registered subject of the constraint).No integrity constraint shall be defined whose constraint scope is not deterministic, for each potential registered subject of the constraint.A unique descriptor comprises:— The key value component specifications, which is a sequence of <key value component>s that specifies the key values of constrained elements of the constraint.A GQL-request descriptor comprises:— The GQL-program, which is a GQL source text.A GQL source text is a character string whose character repertoire shall be an implementation-defined (IV001) subset of the Universal Character Set repertoire specified by The Unicode® Standard that includes every <GQL language character> and every <other language character> supported by the GQL-implementation.— The GQL-request parameters, which are represented as a (possibly empty) dictionary of general parameters that is implicitly determined using an implementation-defined (IW006) mechanism.